1960 the conscience of a conservative by barry goldwater,book,1960-01-01,https://www.questia.com/read/1347479/the-conscience-of-a-conservative,barry goldwater
The ancient and tested truths that guided our Republic through its early days will do equally well for us. The challenge to Conservatives today is quite simply to demonstrate the bearing of a proven philosophy on the problems of our own time.
the nation,the self
I am a politician, a United States Senator. As such, I have had an opportunity to learn something about the political instincts of the American people, I have crossed the length and breadth of this great land hundreds of times and talked with tens of thousands of people, with Democrats and Republicans, with farmers and laborers and businessmen.
the self
I find that America is fundamentally a Conservative nation. The preponderant judgment of the American people, especially of the young people, is that the radical, or Liberal, approach has not worked and is not working. They yearn for a return to Conservative principles.
the nation,the self
At the same time, I have been in a position to observe first hand how Conservatism is faring in Washington. And it is all too clear that in spite of a Conservative revival among the people the radical ideas that were promoted by the New and Fair Deals under the guise of Liberalism still dominate the councils of our national government.
the nation,the opposition
In a country where it is now generally understood and proclaimed that the people's welfare depends on individual self reliance rather than on state paternalism. Congress annually deliberates over whether the increase in government welfarism should be small or large.
welfare,the nation,the opposition
In a country where it is now generally understood and proclaimed that individual liberty depends on decentralized government, Congress annually deliberates over whether vigorous or halting steps should be taken to bring state government into line with federal policy.
the nation,the opposition,state's rights
In a country where it is now generally understood and proclaimed that Communism is an enemy bound to destroy us, Congress annually deliberates over means of \"co-existing\" with the Soviet Union.
the nation,the opposition,anti-communism
And so the question arises: Why have American people been unable to translate their views into appropriate political action? Why should the nation's underlying allegiance to Conservative principles have failed to produce deeds in Washington? I do not blame my brethren in government, all of whom work hard and conscientiously at their jobs. I blame Conservatives -- ourselves -- myself. Our failure, as one Conservative writer has put it, in the failure of the Conservative demonstration. Though we Conservatives are deeply persuaded that our society is ailing, and know that Conservatism holds the key to national salvation and feel sure the country agrees with us -- we seem unable to demonstrate the practical relevance of Conservative principles to the needs of the day.
the self
We sit by impotently while Congress seeks to improvise solutions to problems that are not the real problems facing the country, while the government attempts to assuage imagined concerns and ignores the real concerns and real needs of the people.
the self,the opposition
Perhaps we suffer from an over-sensitivity to the judgments of those who rule the mass communications media. We are daily consigned by \"enlightened\" commentators to political oblivion: Conservatism, we are told, is out- of-date. The charge is preposterous and we ought boldly to say so.
the opposition
The laws of God, and of nature, have no dateline. The principles on which the Conservative political position is based have been established by a process that has nothing to do with the social, economic and political landscape that changes from decade to decade and from century to century. These principles are derived from the nature of man, and from the truths that God has revealed about His creation. Circumstances do change. So do the problems that are shaped by circumstances. But the principles that govern the solution of the problems do not. To suggest that the Conservative philosophy is out of date is akin to saying that the Golden Rule, or the Ten Commandments or Aristotle Politics are out of date. The Conservative approach is nothing more or less than an attempt to apply the wisdom and experience and the revealed truths of the past to the problems of today. The challenge is not to find new or different truths, but to learn how to apply established truths to the problems of the contemporary world. My hope is that one more Conservative voice will be helpful in meeting this challenge.
the self
I shall draw upon my speeches, the radio and television broadcasts and the notes I have made over the years in the hope of doing what one is often unable to do in the course of a harried day's work on the Senate floor: to show the connection between Conservative principles so widely espoused, and Conservative action, so generally neglected.
the self
I HAVE BEEN much concerned that so many people today with Conservative instincts feel compelled to apologize for them. Or if not to apologize directly, to qualify their commitment in a way that amounts to breast-beating. \"Republican candidates,\" Vice President Nixon has said, \"should be economic conservatives, but conservatives with a heart.\"
the self,richard nixon
\"We liberals,\" they say, \"are interested in people. Our concern is with human beings, while you Conservatives are preoccupied with the preservation of economic privilege and status.\" Take them a step further, and the Liberals will turn the accusations into a class argument: it is the little people that concern us, not the \"malefactors of great wealth.\"
the opposition
The shoe is precisely on the other foot: it is Socialism that subordinates all other considerations to man's material well- being. It is Conservatism that puts material things in their proper place -- that has a structured view of the human being and of human society, in which economics plays only a subsidiary role.
the self,anti-communism
Surely the first obligation of a political thinker is to understand the nature of man. The Conservative does not claim special powers of perception on this point, but he does claim a familiarity with the accumulated wisdom and experience of history, and he is not too proud to learn from the great minds of the past.
the self
The first thing he has learned about man is that each member of the species is a unique creature. Man's most sacred possession is his individual soul -- which has an immortal side, but also a mortal one. The mortal side establishes his absolute differentness from every other human being. Only a philosophy that takes into \"count the essential differences between men, and, accordingly, makes provision for developing the different potentialities of each man can claim to be in accord with Nature. We have heard much in the time about \"the common man.\" It is a concept that pays little attention to the history of a nation that grew great through the initiative and ambition of uncommon men.
the self,the nation
The Conservative knows that to regard man as part of an undifferentiated mass is to consign him to ultimate slavery.
anti-communism,the self
Throughout history, true Conservatism has been at war equally with autocrats and with \"democratic\" Jacobins.
the opposition
The true Conservative was sympathetic with the plight of the hapless peasant under the tyranny of the French monarchy. And he was equally revolted at the attempt to solve that problem by a mob tyranny that paraded under the banner of egalitarianism. The conscience of the Conservative is pricked by anyone who would debase the dignity of the individual human being. Today, therefore, he is at odds with dictators who rule by terror, and equally with those gentler collectivists who ask our permission to play God with the human race.
the self,the opposition
With this view of the nature of man, it is understandable that the Conservative looks upon politics as the art of achieving the maximum amount of freedom for individuals that is consistent with the maintenance of the social order.
the self,law & order
The Conservative is the first to understand that the practice of freedom requires the establishment of order: it is impossible for one man to be free if another is able to deny him the exercise of his freedom. But the Conservative also recognizes that the political power on which order is based is a self-aggrandizing force; that its appetite grows with eating. He knows that the utmost vigilance and care are required to keep political power within its proper bounds.
the self,law & order
In our day, order is pretty well taken care of.
the nation,law & order
I am convinced that most Americans now want to reverse the trend. I think that concern for our vanishing freedoms is genuine. I think that the people's uneasiness in the stifling omnipresence of government has turned into something approaching alarm. But bemoaning the evil will not drive it back, and accusing fingers will not shrink government.
the nation
I will not attempt to discover whether legislation is 'needed' before I have first determined whether it is constitutionally permissible. And if I should later be attacked for neglecting my constituents' 'interests,' I shall reply that I was informed their main interest is liberty and that in that cause I am doing the very best I can.\"
the self
Franklin Roosevelt's rapid conversion from Constitutionalism to the doctrine of unlimited government, is an oft-told story. But I am here concerned not so much by the abandonment of States' Rights by the national Democratic Party -- an event that occurred some years ago when that party was captured by the Socialist ideologues in and about the labor movement -- as by the unmistakable tendency of the Republican Party to adopt the same course. The result is that today neither of our two parties maintains a meaningful commitment to the principle of States' Rights.
state's rights,the opposition
Nothing could so far advance the cause of freedom as for state officials throughout the land to assert their rightful claims to lost state power; and for the federal government to withdraw promptly and totally from every jurisdiction which the Constitution reserved to the states.
state's rights