1964 independence day speech by george wallace,speech,1964-07-04,http://www.let.rug.nl/usa/documents/1951-/speech-by-george-c-wallace-the-civil-rights-movement-fraud-sham-and-hoax-1964-.php,george wallace
We come here today in deference to the memory of those stalwart patroits who on July 4, 1776, pledged their lives, their fortunes, and their sacred honor to establish and defend the proposition that governments are created by the people, empowered by the people, derive their just powers from the consent of the people, and must forever remain subservient to the will of the people.
the nation
Today, 188 years later, we celebrate that occasion and find inspiration and determination and courage to preserve and protect the great principles of freedom enunciated in the Declaration of Independence.
the nation,the self
It is therefore a cruel irony that the President of the United States has only yesterday signed into law the most monstrous piece of legislation ever enacted by the United States Congress.
the passage of the civil rights act of 1964,racial equality,state's rights
It is a fraud, a sham, and a hoax. This bill will live in infamy. To sign it into law at any time is tragic. To do so upon the eve of the celebration of our independence insults the intelligence of the American people.
the passage of the civil rights act of 1964,racial equality,state's rights
It dishonors the memory of countless thousands of our dead who offered up their very lives in defense of principles which this bill destroys.
the passage of the civil rights act of 1964,the nation,racial equality,state's rights
Never before in the history of this nation have so many human and property rights been destroyed by a single enactment of the Congress. It is an act of tyranny. It is the assassin's knife stuck in the back of liberty.
the passage of the civil rights act of 1964,property rights,the nation,the opposition,racial equality,state's rights
With this assassin's knife and a blackjack in the hand of the Federal force-cult, the left-wing liberals will try to force us back into bondage. Bondage to a tyranny more brutal than that imposed by the British monarchy which claimed power to rule over the lives of our forefathers under sanction of the Divine Right of kings.
the passage of the civil rights act of 1964,racial equality,property rights,the nation,the opposition,state's rights
Today, this tyranny is imposed by the central government which claims the right to rule over our lives under sanction of the omnipotent black-robed despots who sit on the bench of the United States Supreme Court.
the passage of the civil rights act of 1964,racial equality,state's rights
This bill is fraudulent in intent, in design, and in execution.
the passage of the civil rights act of 1964,racial equality,state's rights
It was left-wing radicals who led the fight in the Senate for the so-called civil rights bill now about to enslave our nation.
the passage of the civil rights act of 1964,racial equality,the opposition
We find Senator Hubert Humphrey telling the people of the United States that \"non-violent\" demonstrations would continue to serve a good purpose through a \"long, busy and constructive summer.\"
hubert humphrey,law & order
Yet this same Senator told the people of this country that passage of this monstrous bill would ease tensions and stop demonstrations.
the passage of the civil rights act of 1964,racial equality,hubert humphrey,law & order
I am having nothing to do with enforcing a law that will destroy neighborhood schools.
the passage of the civil rights act of 1964,racial equality,education
I am having nothing to do with enforcing a law that will destroy the rights of private property.
the passage of the civil rights act of 1964,racial equality,property rights