1964 a time for choosing by ronald reagan,speech,1964-10-27,https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/ronaldreaganatimeforchoosing.htm,ronald reagan
I have spent most of my life as a Democrat. I recently have seen fit to follow another course. I believe that the issues confronting us cross party lines.
the self,the nation,
Now, one side in this campaign has been telling us that the issues of this election are the maintenance of peace and prosperity. The line has been used, \"We've never had it so good.\" But I have an uncomfortable feeling that this prosperity isn't something on which we can base our hopes for the future.
the opposition
No nation in history has ever survived a tax burden that reached a third of its national income.
taxes
Today, 37 cents out of every dollar earned in this country is the tax collector's share, and yet our government continues to spend 17 million dollars a day more than the government takes in.
taxes,us budget
We haven't balanced our budget 28 out of the last 34 years. We've raised our debt limit three times in the last twelve months, and now our national debt is one and a half times bigger than all the combined debts of all the nations of the world.
us budget
We have 15 billion dollars in gold in our treasury; we don't own an ounce. Foreign dollar claims are 27.3 billion dollars. And we've just had announced that the dollar of 1939 will now purchase 45 cents in its total value.
us budget
As for the peace that we would preserve, I wonder who among us would like to approach the wife or mother whose husband or son has died in South Vietnam and ask them if they think this is a peace that should be maintained indefinitely. Do they mean peace, or do they mean we just want to be left in peace? There can be no real peace while one American is dying some place in the world for the rest of us.
the vietnam war,the opposition
We're at war with the most dangerous enemy that has ever faced mankind in his long climb from the swamp to the stars, and it's been said if we lose that war, and in so doing lose this way of freedom of ours, history will record with the greatest astonishment that those who had the most to lose did the least to prevent its happening. Well I think it's time we ask ourselves if we still know the freedoms that were intended for us by the Founding Fathers.
the vietnam war,anti-communism
Not too long ago, two friends of mine were talking to a Cuban refugee, a businessman who had escaped from Castro, and in the midst of his story one of my friends turned to the other and said, \"We don't know how lucky we are.\" And the Cuban stopped and said, \"How lucky you are? I had someplace to escape to.\" And in that sentence he told us the entire story. If we lose freedom here, there's no place to escape to. This is the last stand on earth.
anti-communism
And this idea that government is beholden to the people, that it has no other source of power except the sovereign people, is still the newest and the most unique idea in all the long history of man's relation to man.
the nation
This is the issue of this election: whether we believe in our capacity for self-government or whether we abandon the American revolution and confess that a little intellectual elite in a far-distant capitol can plan our lives for us better than we can plan them ourselves.
the nation,state's rights,the 1964 us presidential election
You and I are told increasingly we have to choose between a left or right. Well I'd like to suggest there is no such thing as a left or right. There's only an up or down: [up] man's old -- old-aged dream, the ultimate in individual freedom consistent with law and order, or down to the ant heap of totalitarianism. And regardless of their sincerity, their humanitarian motives, those who would trade our freedom for security have embarked on this downward course.
the nation,anti-communism,law & order,the opposition
In this vote-harvesting time, they use terms like the \"Great Society,\" or as we were told a few days ago by the President, we must accept a greater government activity in the affairs of the people. But they've been a little more explicit in the past and among themselves; and all of the things I now will quote have appeared in print. These are not Republican accusations. For example, they have voices that say, \"The cold war will end through our acceptance of a not undemocratic socialism.\" Another voice says, \"The profit motive has become outmoded. It must be replaced by the incentives of the welfare state.\" Or, \"Our traditional system of individual freedom is incapable of solving the complex problems of the 20th century.\" Senator Fulbright has said at Stanford University that the Constitution is outmoded. He referred to the President as \"our moral teacher and our leader,\" and he says he is \"hobbled in his task by the restrictions of power imposed on him by this antiquated document.\" He must \"be freed,\" so that he \"can do for us\" what he knows \"is best.\" And Senator Clark of Pennsylvania, another articulate spokesman, defines liberalism as \"meeting the material needs of the masses through the full power of centralized government.\"
the opposition,anti-communism
Senator Humphrey last week charged that Barry Goldwater, as President, would seek to eliminate farmers. He should do his homework a little better, because he'll find out that we've had a decline of 5 million in the farm population under these government programs. He'll also find that the Democratic administration has sought to get from Congress [an] extension of the farm program to include that three-fourths that is now free. He'll find that they've also asked for the right to imprison farmers who wouldn't keep books as prescribed by the federal government. The Secretary of Agriculture asked for the right to seize farms through condemnation and resell them to other individuals. And contained in that same program was a provision that would have allowed the federal government to remove 2 million farmers from the soil.
hubert humphrey, barry goldwater, welfare
You and I have a rendezvous with destiny.
the self,the nation